Advanced Header Filtering
In order to uncover the rest
of the mystery,
we’ll need to rely on advanced
header filtering.
At this point, to better inspect the
requests and responses in the dump,
we’d like to filter out and display
only the data packets.
To do this, we’ll look for packets that
have the ACK and PSH flags turned on,
which are represented by the fourth and
fifth bit of the 14th byte, respectively.
Turning on only these bits
would give us decimal 24.
We can pass this number to tcpdump
as a display filter to indicate that we
only want to see packets with
the ACK and PSH bits set.
We will use the -A option to
print the packets in ASCII.
Bear in mind that the tcpdump array index
used for counting the bytes starts at zero
which is why we are using 13
here to indicate the 14th byte.
The combination of these two flags
will hopefully show us only the
HTTP requests and responses data.
From here, our story becomes clearer.
We see a significant amount
of failed attempts
to authenticate to the /admin directory
which resulted in HTTP 401 replies,
while the last attempt to login
seems to have succeeded…
…as the server replied with
a HTTP 301 response.
It seems someone gained access
to one of megacorpone’s servers!
TCPDump and wireshark are both excellent
sniffers despite the differing interfaces,
making each of them suitable
during a penetration test.